README.md, before:

# KGDreamInvest (Paper) — Multi-Agent Allocator + Investing Knowledge Graph + GUI

> **Forked from**: [DormantOne/kgdreaminvest](https://github.com/DormantOne/kgdreaminvest)  
> This repository contains refactored and enhanced version with modular architecture.

A continuously “thinking” paper-trading sandbox:
- pulls daily market data (Yahoo Finance chart endpoint)
- maintains a small investing knowledge graph in SQLite
- runs background loops to **observe → dream (KG) → think (plans)**
- shows everything in a “pretty” web dashboard (vis-network)

> **Educational / experimental. Not financial advice. Paper trading only.**
> This project does **not** place real trades and does **not** connect to any broker.

---

## System Architecture

```mermaid
graph TB
    subgraph "Web Interface"
        UI[Web Dashboard<br/>Flask + vis-network]
        UI --> API[REST API Endpoints]
        API --> UI
    end

    subgraph "Background Workers"
        MarketWorker[Market Worker<br/>Data Collection]
        DreamWorker[Dream Worker<br/>KG Maintenance]
        ThinkWorker[Think Worker<br/>Multi-Agent Decisions]
        
        MarketWorker -->|Price Data| DB[(SQLite Database)]
        DreamWorker -->|KG Updates| DB
        ThinkWorker -->|Insights/Trades| DB
    end

    subgraph "Data Processing"
        YahooAPI[Yahoo Finance API]
        Indicators[Technical Indicators]
        Signals[Market Signals]
        Correlation[Correlation Analysis]
        LLM[LLM Committee<br/>Ollama API]
    end

    subgraph "Knowledge Graph"
        Nodes[Nodes<br/>Investibles/Bellwethers]
        Edges[Edges<br/>Relationships]
        Channels[Edge Channels<br/>correlates, drives, etc.]
    end

    subgraph "Portfolio Management"
        Portfolio[Paper Portfolio]
        Trades[Trade Execution]
        Guardrails[Guard Rails<br/>Risk Management]
    end

    MarketWorker --> YahooAPI
    YahooAPI --> Indicators
    Indicators --> Signals
    Signals --> DB
    
    DreamWorker --> Correlation
    Correlation --> LLM
    LLM --> Edges
    Edges --> Nodes
    
    ThinkWorker --> LLM
    LLM --> Trades
    Trades --> Portfolio
    Portfolio --> Guardrails
    
    DB --> UI
    Nodes --> UI
    Edges --> UI
    Portfolio --> UI
```

## Process Flow

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant M as Market Worker
    participant D as Dream Worker
    participant T as Think Worker
    participant DB as SQLite Database
    participant LLM as Ollama LLM
    participant UI as Web Interface

    loop Continuous Operation
        M->>YahooAPI: Fetch Prices (every 3 min)
        YahooAPI->>M: Price Data
        M->>DB: Store Snapshot
        M->>DB: Update Positions
        
        D->>DB: Read Latest Snapshot
        D->>Correlation: Analyze Random Pair
        D->>LLM: Label Relationships (30% chance)
        LLM->>D: JSON Channels
        D->>DB: Update Edge Weights
        
        T->>DB: Read Snapshot + Portfolio
        T->>LLM: Multi-Agent Committee
        LLM->>T: Decisions + Explanation
        T->>DB: Store Insight
        alt Auto Trade Enabled
            T->>DB: Execute Paper Trades
            DB->>T: Trade Results
        end
        
        UI->>DB: Fetch State
        DB->>UI: Nodes, Edges, Portfolio
    end
```

## Three-Worker Architecture

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    subgraph Market_Cycle["Market Worker Cycle (Every 3 min)"]
        A1[Fetch Yahoo Prices] --> A2[Compute Indicators]
        A2 --> A3[Generate Signals]
        A3 --> A4[Store Snapshot]
        A4 --> A5[Mark-to-Market]
    end

    subgraph Dream_Cycle["Dream Worker Cycle (Every 4 min)"]
        B1[Select Random Pair] --> B2[Calculate Correlation]
        B2 --> B3{LLM Labeling?}
        B3 -->|Yes| B4[Call Ollama API]
        B3 -->|No| B5[Heuristic Channels]
        B4 --> B6[Update Edge Channels]
        B5 --> B6
        B6 --> B7[Update Node Scores]
    end

    subgraph Think_Cycle["Think Worker Cycle (Every 5 min)"]
        C1[Read Latest Snapshot] --> C2[Build Market Context]
        C2 --> C3[Multi-Agent LLM Call]
        C3 --> C4[Parse Decisions]
        C4 --> C5[Critic Scoring]
        C5 --> C6{Starred?}
        C6 -->|Yes| C7[Execute Trades]
        C6 -->|No| C8[Store Insight]
        C7 --> C8
    end

    A4 -.-> B1
    A4 -.-> C1
```

## Screenshot

![KGDreamInvest UI](kgdreaminvest.png)

## Prerequisites

1) **Python**
   - Python 3.10+ recommended

2) **Ollama + a local model** (required for "thinking/dreaming")
   - This app calls a local LLM via Ollama over HTTP (OLLAMA_HOST/api/chat)
   - You must have:
     - Ollama installed and running
     - At least one model pulled (example: gpt-oss:20b)
     - Environment variables set:
       - OLLAMA_HOST (default: http://localhost:11434)
       - DREAM_MODEL (example: gpt-oss:20b)
   - Works best on a Mac with Apple Silicon (Metal) or any GPU-capable machine
   - CPU-only machines can run, but "dream/think" cycles will be slower. If needed, reduce loop speeds
   - Note: If the LLM call fails, the app falls back to a rule-based allocator
   - But the "multi-agent committee" output and KG labeling are best with Ollama available

## Install

```bash
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt

DATA_DIR=./data \
KGINVEST_DB=./kginvest_live.db \
OLLAMA_HOST=http://localhost:11434 \
DREAM_MODEL=gpt-oss:20b \
PORT=5062 \
AUTO_TRADE=0 \
python3 kgdreaminvest.py
```

## Configuration

### LLM Provider

KGDreamInvest supports both **Ollama** (local) and **OpenRouter** (cloud) for LLM inference.

#### Option 1: Ollama (Default)
For local LLM inference:

```bash
# Install Ollama: https://ollama.com/download
# Pull a model (example):
ollama pull gemma3:4b

# Run with Ollama
LLM_PROVIDER=ollama \
OLLAMA_HOST=http://localhost:11434 \
DREAM_MODEL=gemma3:4b \
python3 kgdreaminvest.py
```

#### Option 2: OpenRouter (Recommended)
For cloud-based LLM inference with the kwaipilot/kat-coder-pro:free model:

```bash
# Get your API key from: https://openrouter.ai/keys
# Set environment variables
export LLM_PROVIDER=openrouter
export OPENROUTER_API_KEY="your-api-key-here"
export DREAM_MODEL="kwaipilot/kat-coder-pro:free"
export OPENROUTER_BASE_URL="https://openrouter.ai/api/v1"

# Run with OpenRouter
python3 kgdreaminvest.py
```

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `LLM_PROVIDER` | LLM provider: "ollama" or "openrouter" | "ollama" |
| `OLLAMA_HOST` | Ollama server URL | "http://localhost:11434" |
| `OPENROUTER_API_KEY` | OpenRouter API key | - |
| `OPENROUTER_BASE_URL` | OpenRouter API base URL | "https://openrouter.ai/api/v1" |
| `DREAM_MODEL` | LLM model name | "gemma3:4b" |
| `KGINVEST_DB` | SQLite database path | "./kginvest_live.db" |
| `DATA_DIR` | Data directory | "." |
| `PORT` | Web UI port | 5062 |
| `AUTO_TRADE` | Enable auto-trading | 0 (disabled) |

### Model Recommendations

- **OpenRouter Free Tier**: `kwaipilot/kat-coder-pro:free` (recommended)
- **Ollama Local**: `gemma3:4b`, `llama3.2:latest`, or `qwen2:latest`

### Prerequisites

1. **Python 3.10+**
2. **LLM Provider**:
   - Ollama (local): Install from [ollama.com](https://ollama.com/download)
   - OpenRouter (cloud): Sign up at [openrouter.ai](https://openrouter.ai)
3. **Optional**: Virtual environment (recommended)

## Open

http://127.0.0.1:5062

Commit message:

docs: Add .env.example and update README for OpenRouter support
- Created .env.example with all configuration options
- Updated README Prerequisites to highlight both OpenRouter and Ollama options
- Clarified that OpenRouter is recommended (no setup required)
- Documented that Ollama is for local/privacy-focused use
- Improved documentation structure for LLM provider selection

README.md, after:

# KGDreamInvest (Paper) — Multi-Agent Allocator + Investing Knowledge Graph + GUI

> **Forked from**: [DormantOne/kgdreaminvest](https://github.com/DormantOne/kgdreaminvest)  
> This repository contains refactored and enhanced version with modular architecture.

A continuously “thinking” paper-trading sandbox:
- pulls daily market data (Yahoo Finance chart endpoint)
- maintains a small investing knowledge graph in SQLite
- runs background loops to **observe → dream (KG) → think (plans)**
- shows everything in a “pretty” web dashboard (vis-network)

> **Educational / experimental. Not financial advice. Paper trading only.**
> This project does **not** place real trades and does **not** connect to any broker.

---

## System Architecture

```mermaid
graph TB
    subgraph "Web Interface"
        UI[Web Dashboard<br/>Flask + vis-network]
        UI --> API[REST API Endpoints]
        API --> UI
    end

    subgraph "Background Workers"
        MarketWorker[Market Worker<br/>Data Collection]
        DreamWorker[Dream Worker<br/>KG Maintenance]
        ThinkWorker[Think Worker<br/>Multi-Agent Decisions]
        
        MarketWorker -->|Price Data| DB[(SQLite Database)]
        DreamWorker -->|KG Updates| DB
        ThinkWorker -->|Insights/Trades| DB
    end

    subgraph "Data Processing"
        YahooAPI[Yahoo Finance API]
        Indicators[Technical Indicators]
        Signals[Market Signals]
        Correlation[Correlation Analysis]
        LLM[LLM Committee<br/>Ollama API]
    end

    subgraph "Knowledge Graph"
        Nodes[Nodes<br/>Investibles/Bellwethers]
        Edges[Edges<br/>Relationships]
        Channels[Edge Channels<br/>correlates, drives, etc.]
    end

    subgraph "Portfolio Management"
        Portfolio[Paper Portfolio]
        Trades[Trade Execution]
        Guardrails[Guard Rails<br/>Risk Management]
    end

    MarketWorker --> YahooAPI
    YahooAPI --> Indicators
    Indicators --> Signals
    Signals --> DB
    
    DreamWorker --> Correlation
    Correlation --> LLM
    LLM --> Edges
    Edges --> Nodes
    
    ThinkWorker --> LLM
    LLM --> Trades
    Trades --> Portfolio
    Portfolio --> Guardrails
    
    DB --> UI
    Nodes --> UI
    Edges --> UI
    Portfolio --> UI
```

## Process Flow

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant M as Market Worker
    participant D as Dream Worker
    participant T as Think Worker
    participant DB as SQLite Database
    participant LLM as Ollama LLM
    participant UI as Web Interface

    loop Continuous Operation
        M->>YahooAPI: Fetch Prices (every 3 min)
        YahooAPI->>M: Price Data
        M->>DB: Store Snapshot
        M->>DB: Update Positions
        
        D->>DB: Read Latest Snapshot
        D->>Correlation: Analyze Random Pair
        D->>LLM: Label Relationships (30% chance)
        LLM->>D: JSON Channels
        D->>DB: Update Edge Weights
        
        T->>DB: Read Snapshot + Portfolio
        T->>LLM: Multi-Agent Committee
        LLM->>T: Decisions + Explanation
        T->>DB: Store Insight
        alt Auto Trade Enabled
            T->>DB: Execute Paper Trades
            DB->>T: Trade Results
        end
        
        UI->>DB: Fetch State
        DB->>UI: Nodes, Edges, Portfolio
    end
```

## Three-Worker Architecture

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    subgraph Market_Cycle["Market Worker Cycle (Every 3 min)"]
        A1[Fetch Yahoo Prices] --> A2[Compute Indicators]
        A2 --> A3[Generate Signals]
        A3 --> A4[Store Snapshot]
        A4 --> A5[Mark-to-Market]
    end

    subgraph Dream_Cycle["Dream Worker Cycle (Every 4 min)"]
        B1[Select Random Pair] --> B2[Calculate Correlation]
        B2 --> B3{LLM Labeling?}
        B3 -->|Yes| B4[Call Ollama API]
        B3 -->|No| B5[Heuristic Channels]
        B4 --> B6[Update Edge Channels]
        B5 --> B6
        B6 --> B7[Update Node Scores]
    end

    subgraph Think_Cycle["Think Worker Cycle (Every 5 min)"]
        C1[Read Latest Snapshot] --> C2[Build Market Context]
        C2 --> C3[Multi-Agent LLM Call]
        C3 --> C4[Parse Decisions]
        C4 --> C5[Critic Scoring]
        C5 --> C6{Starred?}
        C6 -->|Yes| C7[Execute Trades]
        C6 -->|No| C8[Store Insight]
        C7 --> C8
    end

    A4 -.-> B1
    A4 -.-> C1
```

## Screenshot

![KGDreamInvest UI](kgdreaminvest.png)

## Prerequisites

1) **Python**
   - Python 3.10+ recommended

2) **LLM Provider** (required for "thinking/dreaming")
   
   Choose one of the following:
   
   **Option A: OpenRouter** (Recommended - No setup required)
   - Cloud-based LLM inference
   - Get a free API key from [openrouter.ai](https://openrouter.ai/keys)
   - Use free models like `kwaipilot/kat-coder-pro:free`
   - No local installation needed
   - Works on any machine with internet connection
   
   **Option B: Ollama** (Local - Privacy-focused)
   - Local LLM inference via Ollama over HTTP
   - You must have:
     - Ollama installed and running ([ollama.com](https://ollama.com/download))
     - At least one model pulled (example: `gemma3:4b`, `llama3.2:latest`)
     - Environment variables set:
       - OLLAMA_HOST (default: http://localhost:11434)
       - DREAM_MODEL (example: gemma3:4b)
   - Works best on Mac with Apple Silicon (Metal) or GPU-capable machine
   - CPU-only machines can run but will be slower
   
   **Fallback**: If LLM calls fail, the app falls back to a rule-based allocator, but the "multi-agent committee" output and KG labeling work best with LLM available.

## Install

```bash
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt

DATA_DIR=./data \
KGINVEST_DB=./kginvest_live.db \
OLLAMA_HOST=http://localhost:11434 \
DREAM_MODEL=gpt-oss:20b \
PORT=5062 \
AUTO_TRADE=0 \
python3 kgdreaminvest.py
```

## Configuration

### LLM Provider

KGDreamInvest supports both **Ollama** (local) and **OpenRouter** (cloud) for LLM inference.

#### Option 1: Ollama (Default)
For local LLM inference:

```bash
# Install Ollama: https://ollama.com/download
# Pull a model (example):
ollama pull gemma3:4b

# Run with Ollama
LLM_PROVIDER=ollama \
OLLAMA_HOST=http://localhost:11434 \
DREAM_MODEL=gemma3:4b \
python3 kgdreaminvest.py
```

#### Option 2: OpenRouter (Recommended)
For cloud-based LLM inference with the kwaipilot/kat-coder-pro:free model:

```bash
# Get your API key from: https://openrouter.ai/keys
# Set environment variables
export LLM_PROVIDER=openrouter
export OPENROUTER_API_KEY="your-api-key-here"
export DREAM_MODEL="kwaipilot/kat-coder-pro:free"
export OPENROUTER_BASE_URL="https://openrouter.ai/api/v1"

# Run with OpenRouter
python3 kgdreaminvest.py
```

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `LLM_PROVIDER` | LLM provider: "ollama" or "openrouter" | "ollama" |
| `OLLAMA_HOST` | Ollama server URL | "http://localhost:11434" |
| `OPENROUTER_API_KEY` | OpenRouter API key | - |
| `OPENROUTER_BASE_URL` | OpenRouter API base URL | "https://openrouter.ai/api/v1" |
| `DREAM_MODEL` | LLM model name | "gemma3:4b" |
| `KGINVEST_DB` | SQLite database path | "./kginvest_live.db" |
| `DATA_DIR` | Data directory | "." |
| `PORT` | Web UI port | 5062 |
| `AUTO_TRADE` | Enable auto-trading | 0 (disabled) |

### Model Recommendations

- **OpenRouter Free Tier**: `kwaipilot/kat-coder-pro:free` (recommended)
- **Ollama Local**: `gemma3:4b`, `llama3.2:latest`, or `qwen2:latest`

### Prerequisites

1. **Python 3.10+**
2. **LLM Provider**:
   - Ollama (local): Install from [ollama.com](https://ollama.com/download)
   - OpenRouter (cloud): Sign up at [openrouter.ai](https://openrouter.ai)
3. **Optional**: Virtual environment (recommended)

## Open

http://127.0.0.1:5062
